Profession of the future in today's tutorial we will find out why data science is the place to be going
forward in the next couple of years or even decades.
Why this is the profession that you want to be in.
So there's lots of dot in the world.
And ultimately Darra is the resource that our scientists work with.
If there's more data there's more work if there's less data there's less work so let's find out what's
been going on with the data and what will be going on with data in the coming years.
So let's jump straight into it.
Since the dawn of time up until 2005 humans had created.
Are you ready for this one hundred thirty exabytes of data.
Well Carol this tells me absolutely nothing.
Right.
What is an Exabyte.
Why is this impressive.
Well let's start from the ground up.
Let's start with one byte here we've got the letter A.
It takes up exactly one byte of space.
Now if we zoom out a thousand times then we have a page of letters now a page of letters can have between
two thousand five thousand letters.
So we'll say that half a page of text is about right for one kilobyte.
Now let's zoom out another thousand times and you'll get a book.
So a book of about 500 pages that'll take up about a megabyte.
Now let's zoom out another thousand times.
And what we'll get is a gigabyte and a gigabyte is sufficient to fit the whole human genome so a human
genome once it's coded it can fit into a gigabyte.
In fact even seven hundred and fifty megabytes should be enough to fit that but it'll say gigabyte.
So you can fit an entire person onto a gigabyte if you think of it that way.
But here you'll say Well Carol actually the genome of a person is not sufficient to tell you everything
about that person a person has you know life experiences a person if different people live their lives
differently.
And there's lots more to a person than just the genome.
Well then let's zoom out another thousand times and we'll get to a terabyte.
Well if you take an HD camera and you follow a person for every single day of their life for every single
hour minute and second and you film everything that they're doing for 70 or 80 years you can fit all
of that material onto one terabyte.
How about that.
That is pretty impressive already.
So one terabyte can fit all of your life experiences filmed through your life for every single second
that you live.
Now let's zoom out another thousand times and we'll get to a terabyte.
And for a terabyte.
I've got one of my favorite examples.
Here's the Amazon rain forest the Amazon rain forest takes up about 1.4 billion acres.
That's one point four billion acres of trees.
There's about 500 trees per acre making it about 700 billion trees.
Now if you take all of these trees and you chop them down and you turn them into paper and you fill
that paper with letters completely on both sides of the sheet then that will amount to somewhere between
Want to Pedda bytes of data that is pretty impressive already for a terabyte.
How much a pair of data is actually.
Well now if you zoom out another thousand times you will get an exabyte and Exabyte is a thousand petabytes
going back to our example.
Since the dawn of time until 2005 humans had created 130 exabytes of data that is a lot of data and
this includes everything includes and written and includes spoken includes full includes songs includes
any kind of data ever produced by humans even all the words that they ever said.
Now by 2010 this number had grown to 1000 200 exabytes of data so it nearly increased ten fold just
over five years.
Then in 2015 this Dahlia's estimated at seven thousand nine hundred exabytes of data.
And finally by 2020 it's expected to be forty thousand nine hundred exabytes of data.
So you can see that data in the world is growing very very quickly in fact is growing exponentially
.
We are creating much more data by the day.
And if you visualize it it looks something like this.
So this is the growth of data between 2010 and 2020.
It's a 50 fold graph of data and the source for this report is ITC's Digital Universe sponsored by EMC
.
Now where is the opportunity for data scientists here why is it such a lucrative profession to be in
Well if you plot computers on this chart how computers are able to cope with the data.
Then I would expect there'd be somewhere or would here.
So that's how machines are able to store and process and do something with this data as you can see
there's so much more data in the world that machine than machines can actually use and make sense of
and adds value with.
Well now if you plot the data scientists of the world they're actually over there way below the machines
.
They're from here you can see that there is a massive gap between the amount of data and how much data
scientists can process and even between the amount of data that machines can process and derive value
from a data scientists.
And these gaps are actually just going to grow and grow and grow of time.
And that is why there will be a huge growing demand for scientists in the future and we can really see
that now we can already see how data scientists are becoming very popular salaries are going up and
through the roof especially for very qualified data scientists who know what they're doing and can add
value can do something with all of this data in the world.
And in fact data science has already become a degree you can take different courses on our science and
programs in universities like Berkeley and so on.
And in fact you're actually taking one of these courses right now so you definitely already know that
.
And this is why our science is the place to be.
Dora is going to grow in the world.
Demand is going to grow.
And they were always be a need for people who know what to do with their daughter.
In fact we have time data science will become like and Norm it will become a norm just like everybody
now has to know how to use an iPad.
Everybody in 10 years time will be expected to know some level of data signs that they will be expected
to apply in their role.
There you have it.
That is why data science is a great place to be and it's not going anywhere and you definitely did the
right thing by enrolling in this course and you'll learn tons to help you be one of the top data scientists
that is going to take advantage of those gaps that need to be filled.
And I look forward to seeing our next tutorial.
Until then happy analyzing